docs/TUTORIAL_MODE.md, before:

# Making your own interaction mode
----

The goal of this step is to make your own interaction model that does keyboard and mouse interactions when responding to your sounds and speech.
This step will require programming, but I've made this tutorial with the assumption of no prior knowledge. So it should at least be followable for a novice.
You will need to have a trained model before we can interact with it however, so make sure you have followed the previous steps. Or simply use the dummy classifier ( which only classifies noise and silence )

In the examples directory, there are files labeled mode_tutorial_a.py - These are complete files with comments and explanations about what they do.
You're free to copy and paste them in the lib/modes/ directory, and if you're running into issues, you can always copy back the original in the examples directory over the altered one in the lib/modes directory.

Running an interaction mode for testing ( uses mode_tutorial_a.py )
----

First, copy over the mode_tutorial_a.py file from the examples directory over to the lib/modes directory. This is an empty interaction mode that won't react to anything.
If you need a clean configuration, you can also copy over the config file in the examples directory to the config directory.

We can run our program using the `play.py` command.
This will automatically run the default classifier and the default mode in the config/config.py command. 
You can always change this to match your own trained model and classifier.
Remember, you can always pause or quit the program by pressing SPACE or ESC respectively.
If you encounter a crash during this command, make sure you have followed the installation process and make sure you haven't skipped any steps.

For now, we will run the `py play.py` command with a few bits added to them. 
Adding ` -t` will run the program in testing mode. In this mode - No key presses or mouse clicks will be performed, but they will be printed in your terminal.
Adding ` -m mode_tutorial_a` will run the program with the mode_tutorial_a file placed in the lib/modes directory. Currently, because mode_tutorial_a is empty, it won't do much but listen for sounds.
Adding ` -c dummy` will run the program using the dummy classifier which only recognizes sound and noise. Of course, you can replace dummy with your own trained model to use that model.
If any of these additional bits are omitted, the program will revert to the defaults set in the config/config file.

As you can see, nothing is actually being done now when you are running the program. We're going to change that in the next step.

Keyboard and mouse interaction ( uses mode_tutorial_b.py )
----

Inside the mode_tutorial_b.py file, there are a number of lines between four # signs that denote the different kind of basic interactions that you are able to do.
For the keyboard, you can press and hold down keys. And for the mouse you can drag, left and right click. 

Copy the mode_tutorial_b file over and remove one of the # signs in front of a line to test it out. You can run the testing command to safely see if it is registering a command.
`Press` instantly presses a key whenever a sound is detected, but this will cause a lot of repeat keystrokes rapidly after one another.
`Hold` holds a key down and sends press events, trying to simulate your keyboard. That means whenever hold is run, it will press one key first, and only after half a second, will repeat the key after half a second. 
Just like your regular keyboard! This is generally a safer option to take. 
`Leftclick` presses your left mouse button, while `rightclick` presses the right one.
`Drag_mouse` holds down your left mouse button, enabling dragging over things like text or units.

You will notice that once you turn silent, things like mouse dragging and holding down keys will automatically stop. This is something that is done for you in the lib/modes/base_mode file.
The only keys that are kept pressed down are CTRL, SHIFT or ALT if they were run with hold. You can release those special keys using the `release` function.

More interactions, such as scrolling and holding down the middle mouse button, are possible using the pyautogui library that you installed when setting up Parrot.py. 
[View the pyautogui documentation and possible keyboard keys here](https://pyautogui.readthedocs.io/en/latest/keyboard.html)
You can also look in the lib/input_manager file for examples on how pyautogui is used.

Detection strategies ( uses mode_tutorial_c.py )
----

Now we are going to connect our sounds to our keyboard inputs.

Commit message:

Further improved the documentation on the interaction modes step

docs/TUTORIAL_MODE.md, after:

# Making your own interaction mode
----

The goal of this step is to make your own interaction model that does keyboard and mouse interactions when responding to your sounds and speech.
This step will require programming, but I've made this tutorial with the assumption of no prior knowledge. So it should at least be followable for a novice.
You will need to have a trained model before we can interact with it however, so make sure you have followed the previous steps. Or simply use the dummy classifier ( which only classifies noise and silence )

In the examples directory, there are files labeled mode_tutorial_a.py - These are complete files with comments and explanations about what they do.
You're free to copy and paste them in the lib/modes/ directory, and if you're running into issues, you can always copy back the original in the examples directory over the altered one in the lib/modes directory.

Running an interaction mode for testing ( uses mode_tutorial_a.py )
----

First, copy over the mode_tutorial_a.py file from the examples directory over to the lib/modes directory. This is an empty interaction mode that won't react to anything.
If you need a clean configuration, you can also copy over the config file in the examples directory to the config directory.

We can run our program using the `play.py` command.
This will automatically run the default classifier and the default mode in the config/config.py command. 
You can always change this to match your own trained model and classifier.
Remember, you can always pause or quit the program by pressing SPACE or ESC respectively.
If you encounter a crash during this command, make sure you have followed the installation process and make sure you haven't skipped any steps.

For now, we will run the `py play.py` command with a few bits added to them. 
Adding ` -t` will run the program in testing mode. In this mode - No key presses or mouse clicks will be performed, but they will be printed in your terminal.
Adding ` -m mode_tutorial_a` will run the program with the mode_tutorial_a file placed in the lib/modes directory. Currently, because mode_tutorial_a is empty, it won't do much but listen for sounds.
Adding ` -c dummy` will run the program using the dummy classifier which only recognizes sound and noise. Of course, you can replace dummy with your own trained model to use that model.
If any of these additional bits are omitted, the program will revert to the defaults set in the config/config file.

As you can see, nothing is actually being done now when you are running the program. We're going to change that in the next step.

Keyboard and mouse interaction ( uses mode_tutorial_b.py )
----

Inside the mode_tutorial_b.py file, there are a number of lines between four # signs that denote the different kind of basic interactions that you are able to do.
For the keyboard, you can press and hold down keys. And for the mouse you can drag, left and right click. 

Copy the mode_tutorial_b file over and remove one of the # signs in front of a line to test it out. You can run the testing command to safely see if it is registering a command.
`Press` instantly presses a key whenever a sound is detected, but this will cause a lot of repeat keystrokes rapidly after one another.
`Hold` holds a key down and sends press events, trying to simulate your keyboard. That means whenever hold is run, it will press one key first, and only after half a second, will repeat the key after half a second. 
Just like your regular keyboard! This is generally a safer option to take. 
`Leftclick` presses your left mouse button, while `rightclick` presses the right one.
`Drag_mouse` holds down your left mouse button, enabling dragging over things like text or units.

You will notice that once you turn silent, things like mouse dragging and holding down keys will automatically stop. This is something that is done for you in the lib/modes/base_mode file.
The only keys that are kept pressed down are CTRL, SHIFT or ALT if they were run with hold. You can release those special keys using the `release` function.

More interactions, such as scrolling and holding down the middle mouse button, are possible using the pyautogui library that you installed when setting up Parrot.py. 
[View the pyautogui documentation and possible keyboard keys here](https://pyautogui.readthedocs.io/en/latest/keyboard.html)
You can also look in the lib/input_manager file for examples on how pyautogui is used.

Detection strategies ( uses mode_tutorial_c.py )
----

Now we are going to connect our sounds to our keyboard inputs. This can be done using patterns.
Patterns are a combination of activation thresholds and throttles. Every individual pattern must have a name to identify it, sounds which you can detect using your model, and some activation thresholds like power, intensity and frequency.
Optionally you can add things like throttles to your activation to make sure your pattern doesn't get activated continuously.

In our example file ( mode_tutorial_c.py ) we have two patterns that can be detected. Loud is connected to the noise sound ( which is a sound that is detected by the dummy model ) and will only get activated if the model is above 90 percent certain that the sound is being heard.
Another pattern is called louder, and this one has a second threshold 'power' of 50.000, and will only get activated if the power of the sound is above 50.000 despite it listening to the same sound.
There are many complex things you can do with patterns, like having the percentages of sounds combined to reach a possible threshold. Or having a lowest threshold in case you want to use a continuous sound for activation.
You can even throttle multiple sounds at the same time, like in the louder example, to avoid activating certain patterns after one another.

Here you can also see the if detect statements ( On line 29 for example ). In case the pattern louder is being detected, we will press B, if the loud pattern is detected, we will press A.
This is the thing that connects our detection patterns to actions. There are many different things you can do with if statements ( as seen in the documentation over at: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html ).
But one thing you must make sure of, is that you use the right amount of spaces on the next line ( On line 30 in our example ) to make sure the program doesn't crash.

This step is more trial and error. I personally use the testing mode to see what thresholds work best for what activation function.
